docs/tools.md, before:

# Tools

- [compose](#compose)
- [copyText](#copytext)
- [curry](#curry)
- [enumerate](#enumerate)
- [escapeRegExp](#escaperegexp)
- [generateEnums](#generateenums)
- [isRegExpPattern](#isregexppattern)
- [lens](#lens)
- [memoise](#memoise)
- [parseJson](#parseJson)
- [pasteText](#pasteText)
- [regExpString](#regexpstring)
- [regExpTemplate](#regexptemplate)
- [simd](#simd)
- [sleep](#sleep)
- [stringifyJson](#stringifyJson)

- [Index](../README.md)

---

## [compose](:#compose)

Combines a list of monadic (single parameter) functions into a single new function that expects a single input parameter.

### Parameters

- args - a number of monadic (single parameter) functions.

### Return Value

A new monadic function that is a combination of all those provided.

## [copyText](:#copytext)

Copies the given text string to the browser's clipboard.

### Parameters

- string - text to be copied to the clipboard.

### Return Value

None.

## [curry](:#curry)

Converts the given variadic function into one that expects arguments to be supplied one at a time.

### Parameters

- fn - variadic function to convert into a curried function.
- \_args - private array of arguments accumulated prior to execution.

### Return Value

A curried function.

## [enumerate](:#enumerate)

Extracts keys from the source to construct an object of enumerated values. The value of each enumeration can be the same as the original key or a number increamenting from 0.
Options enable the enumeration keys to be converted to GLOBAL_CASE, or configure the values as numeric.

### Use Cases

1. Create an object from an array of strings to be used as an Enumeration set.
2. Create a lookup object of constants (strings) that map to properties of a function map object.

### Parameters

- source - an array or object to be used to extract the enumeration labels and values.
- options - an optional structure used to instruct the function of its behaviour.
  - constantProperties - Boolean flag; true to convert, false (default) to leave as is.
  - numericValues - Boolean flag: true to provide incremental numeric values, false (default) to use the original keys.

### Return Value

An object containing the enumerated values.

### Exceptions

| Code |                            Description                            |
| :--: | :---------------------------------------------------------------: |
| E-IS |   _The source argument supplied is not an Array or an Object._    |
| E-NS | _The source argument supplied is not populated with string keys._ |
| E-NR |         _The option 'option' is not a recognised option._         |
| E-NB |           _The option 'option' is not a Boolean value._           |

## [escapeRegExp](:#escaperegexp)

Converts a Regular Expression pattern to a escaped string.

### Parameters

- pattern - a string (defaulted to empty) to be escaped.

### Return Value

A string containing the escaped Regular Expression pattern.

## [generateEnums](:#generateenums)

Creates an object containing a collection of Enumerated values taken from a JSON stringified object.

### Usage

```javascript
const { shortDays, shortMonths, longDays, longMonths } = generateEnums(`{
  "shortDays": { "Sun": 0, "Mon": 1, "Tue": 2, "Wed": 3, "Thu": 4, "Fri": 5, "Sat": 6},
  "longDays": { "Sunday": 0, "Monday": 1, "Tuesday": 2, "Wednesday": 3,
    "Thursday": 4, "Friday": 5, "Saturday": 6}
}`);
```

### Parameters

- enumJson - a JSON stringified object containing arrays and/or objects to be used to extract the enumeration labels and values.

* options - an optional structure used to instruct the function of its behaviour.
  - constantProperties - Boolean flag; true to convert, false (default) to leave as is.
  - numericValues - Boolean flag: true to provide incremental numeric values, false (default) to use the original keys.

### Return Value

An object is returned containing a collection of enumerated data values for destructuring.

## [isRegExpPattern](:#isregexppattern)

Tests to confirm the given string is a valid Regular Expression pattern.

### Parameters

- pattern - a string (defaulted to empty) to be escaped.

### Return Value

A Boolean value indicating the given string was either a normal populated string or a valid Regular Expression pattern.

## [lens](:#lens)

Creates a repeatable function for extracting values out of objects/arrays at a given location (property/subscript).

### Parameters

- props - one or more propertyNames or array subscripts, either individually or in strings.

### Return Value

A lookup function to return the value of a property at the stated location, for a given object.

## [memoise](:#memoise)

Converts the given pure function into on that is optimised using memoisation (caching.)

### Parameters

- fn - pure function to convert into a memoised function.
- \_cache - private cache of function executions.

### Return Value

A memoised function.

## [parseJson](:#parseJson)

Safer implementation of the JSON.parse method that return an error when an exception is encountered.

### Parameters

- jsonString (JS String) subject of the String to Object convertion.
- reviver (function) used to intercept the convertion process.

### Return Value

An object is returned containing either a data property when successful, or an error property to report the cause of an exception.

## [pasteText](:#pastetext)

Copies text from the clipboard and returns it. This is an asynchronous operation.

### Parameters

None.

### Return Value

The text from the clipboard.

## [simd](:#simd)

Single-Instruction-Multiple-Data - Generates a function based on the intial input that well be applied to all data subsequently supplied. The function is called from within a Promise to all data is processes in parallel.

### Paremeters

This function employs 2-stage execution through currying.

#### Initial call

- instruction - the function to be applied to each datum. Returns a reusable function.

#### Subsequent calls

- data - One or more datum.

### Return Value

An array of return values for each datum passed through the instruction (function).

## [regExpString](:#regexpstring)

A Tagged Template to convert a regular string into an escaped Regular Expression pattern.

### Parameters

- A template literal containing a Regular Expression pattern with RegExp escaped characters.

### Return Value

A string with all the Regular Expression characters escaped.

## [regExpTemplate](:#regexptemplate)

Enables the production of Regular Expression objects using more easily readable patterns based on template literals. This function is based on Douglas Crockford's mega_regexp function but extended to utilise String.raw method to remove the need to escape special charcaters.

Lines starting with # are regarded as full-line comments and removed from the pattern. The hash (#) can also be used to append a mid-line comment that will also be removed from and including the hash. This means that hash characters not used for mid-line comments need to be escaped with the backslash characater (\\#).

### Parameters

This function employs 2-stage execution through currying.

#### Initial call

- regExpFlags - the optional string containing any flags to be applied when creating the RegExp object.

#### Subsequent calls

- templateTextSections - array of text sections of the Template Literal, destructed to expose the `raw` property.
- templateValueSecions - (rest) array of values interpolated in the Template Literal.

### Return Value

A new RegExp object based on the supplied arguments.

## [sleep](:#sleep)

Delays processing of the current thread or a set period of time (approximately.)

### Parameters

- ms - delay in milliseconds (1/1000th of a second)

### Return Value

None

## [stringifyJson](:#stringifyJson)

Safer implementation of the JSON.stringify method that return an error when an exception is encountered.

### Parameters

- jsonObject (JS Object) subject of the Object to String convertion.
- replacer (function) used to intercept the convertion process.
- spaces (number) of spaces used to indent scopes of the Object.

### Return Value

An object is returned containing either a data property when successful, or an error property to report the cause of an exception.

---

Commit message:

Match lookup function constructor added to tools

docs/tools.md, after:

# Tools

- [compose](#compose)
- [copyText](#copytext)
- [curry](#curry)
- [enumerate](#enumerate)
- [escapeRegExp](#escaperegexp)
- [generateEnums](#generateenums)
- [isRegExpPattern](#isregexppattern)
- [lens](#lens)
- [match](#match)
- [memoise](#memoise)
- [parseJson](#parseJson)
- [pasteText](#pasteText)
- [regExpString](#regexpstring)
- [regExpTemplate](#regexptemplate)
- [simd](#simd)
- [sleep](#sleep)
- [stringifyJson](#stringifyJson)

- [Index](../README.md)

---

## [compose](:#compose)

Combines a list of monadic (single parameter) functions into a single new function that expects a single input parameter.

### Parameters

- args - a number of monadic (single parameter) functions.

### Return Value

A new monadic function that is a combination of all those provided.

## [copyText](:#copytext)

Copies the given text string to the browser's clipboard.

### Parameters

- string - text to be copied to the clipboard.

### Return Value

None.

## [curry](:#curry)

Converts the given variadic function into one that expects arguments to be supplied one at a time.

### Parameters

- fn - variadic function to convert into a curried function.
- \_args - private array of arguments accumulated prior to execution.

### Return Value

A curried function.

## [enumerate](:#enumerate)

Extracts keys from the source to construct an object of enumerated values. The value of each enumeration can be the same as the original key or a number increamenting from 0.
Options enable the enumeration keys to be converted to GLOBAL_CASE, or configure the values as numeric.

### Use Cases

1. Create an object from an array of strings to be used as an Enumeration set.
2. Create a lookup object of constants (strings) that map to properties of a function map object.

### Parameters

- source - an array or object to be used to extract the enumeration labels and values.
- options - an optional structure used to instruct the function of its behaviour.
  - constantProperties - Boolean flag; true to convert, false (default) to leave as is.
  - numericValues - Boolean flag: true to provide incremental numeric values, false (default) to use the original keys.

### Return Value

An object containing the enumerated values.

### Exceptions

| Code |                            Description                            |
| :--: | :---------------------------------------------------------------: |
| E-IS |   _The source argument supplied is not an Array or an Object._    |
| E-NS | _The source argument supplied is not populated with string keys._ |
| E-NR |         _The option 'option' is not a recognised option._         |
| E-NB |           _The option 'option' is not a Boolean value._           |

## [escapeRegExp](:#escaperegexp)

Converts a Regular Expression pattern to a escaped string.

### Parameters

- pattern - a string (defaulted to empty) to be escaped.

### Return Value

A string containing the escaped Regular Expression pattern.

## [generateEnums](:#generateenums)

Creates an object containing a collection of Enumerated values taken from a JSON stringified object.

### Usage

```javascript
const { shortDays, shortMonths, longDays, longMonths } = generateEnums(`{
  "shortDays": { "Sun": 0, "Mon": 1, "Tue": 2, "Wed": 3, "Thu": 4, "Fri": 5, "Sat": 6},
  "longDays": { "Sunday": 0, "Monday": 1, "Tuesday": 2, "Wednesday": 3,
    "Thursday": 4, "Friday": 5, "Saturday": 6}
}`);
```

### Parameters

- enumJson - a JSON stringified object containing arrays and/or objects to be used to extract the enumeration labels and values.

* options - an optional structure used to instruct the function of its behaviour.
  - constantProperties - Boolean flag; true to convert, false (default) to leave as is.
  - numericValues - Boolean flag: true to provide incremental numeric values, false (default) to use the original keys.

### Return Value

An object is returned containing a collection of enumerated data values for destructuring.

## [isRegExpPattern](:#isregexppattern)

Tests to confirm the given string is a valid Regular Expression pattern.

### Parameters

- pattern - a string (defaulted to empty) to be escaped.

### Return Value

A Boolean value indicating the given string was either a normal populated string or a valid Regular Expression pattern.

## [lens](:#lens)

Creates a repeatable function for extracting values out of objects/arrays at a given location (property/subscript).

### Parameters

- props - one or more propertyNames or array subscripts, either individually or in strings.

### Return Value

A lookup function to return the value of a property at the stated location, for a given object.

## [match](:#match)

Creates a lookup function of a collection of key:value pairs, with the first pair used a default.

### Parameters

- ...patterns: a list of key/value objects.

### Return Value

A lookup function that returns the value for a given key, with the fallback of the first value.

## [memoise](:#memoise)

Converts the given pure function into on that is optimised using memoisation (caching.)

### Parameters

- fn - pure function to convert into a memoised function.
- \_cache - private cache of function executions.

### Return Value

A memoised function.

## [parseJson](:#parseJson)

Safer implementation of the JSON.parse method that return an error when an exception is encountered.

### Parameters

- jsonString (JS String) subject of the String to Object convertion.
- reviver (function) used to intercept the convertion process.

### Return Value

An object is returned containing either a data property when successful, or an error property to report the cause of an exception.

## [pasteText](:#pastetext)

Copies text from the clipboard and returns it. This is an asynchronous operation.

### Parameters

None.

### Return Value

The text from the clipboard.

## [simd](:#simd)

Single-Instruction-Multiple-Data - Generates a function based on the intial input that well be applied to all data subsequently supplied. The function is called from within a Promise to all data is processes in parallel.

### Paremeters

This function employs 2-stage execution through currying.

#### Initial call

- instruction - the function to be applied to each datum. Returns a reusable function.

#### Subsequent calls

- data - One or more datum.

### Return Value

An array of return values for each datum passed through the instruction (function).

## [regExpString](:#regexpstring)

A Tagged Template to convert a regular string into an escaped Regular Expression pattern.

### Parameters

- A template literal containing a Regular Expression pattern with RegExp escaped characters.

### Return Value

A string with all the Regular Expression characters escaped.

## [regExpTemplate](:#regexptemplate)

Enables the production of Regular Expression objects using more easily readable patterns based on template literals. This function is based on Douglas Crockford's mega_regexp function but extended to utilise String.raw method to remove the need to escape special charcaters.

Lines starting with # are regarded as full-line comments and removed from the pattern. The hash (#) can also be used to append a mid-line comment that will also be removed from and including the hash. This means that hash characters not used for mid-line comments need to be escaped with the backslash characater (\\#).

### Parameters

This function employs 2-stage execution through currying.

#### Initial call

- regExpFlags - the optional string containing any flags to be applied when creating the RegExp object.

#### Subsequent calls

- templateTextSections - array of text sections of the Template Literal, destructed to expose the `raw` property.
- templateValueSecions - (rest) array of values interpolated in the Template Literal.

### Return Value

A new RegExp object based on the supplied arguments.

## [sleep](:#sleep)

Delays processing of the current thread or a set period of time (approximately.)

### Parameters

- ms - delay in milliseconds (1/1000th of a second)

### Return Value

None

## [stringifyJson](:#stringifyJson)

Safer implementation of the JSON.stringify method that return an error when an exception is encountered.

### Parameters

- jsonObject (JS Object) subject of the Object to String convertion.
- replacer (function) used to intercept the convertion process.
- spaces (number) of spaces used to indent scopes of the Object.

### Return Value

An object is returned containing either a data property when successful, or an error property to report the cause of an exception.

---
